I would like to talk about generosity as such a beautiful quality.
We all like it when someone is generous to us,
but what about the other way around?
Ask yourself, would others in my family
or my congregation view me as being a generous person,
or might they view me as stingy,
or possibly oblivious to the needs of others?
Ephesians 5.1 urges us to become imitators of God.
Jehovah is very generous indeed.
Think of the ransom of his son.
Jehovah generously brought back our future hope of everlasting life.
Can we imitate his generosity?
At Luke 11 13, Jesus likened Jehovah to a loving parent.
Just as a parent gives good gifts to his children,
Jesus said, how much more so will the Father in heaven
give Holy Spirit to those asking him?
Similarly, if anyone is in need of wisdom,
he can simply ask Jehovah.
James chapter 1 verse 5 says that he gives generously
and without reproaching.
Jesus too was a generous person.
Do you remember his first miracle?
He was at a marriage feast, and the wine ran out
to avoid embarrassment on the part of the newly married couple
and to ensure that the guests enjoyed the rest of the meal,
Jesus turned 100 gallons or almost 380 liters of water
into fine wine.
That was generous indeed.
Now back to our earlier question.
Do those in my family or my congregation view me
as being a generous person?
What are some ways that I can show generosity?
Due to the economy in the past few years,
many of our brothers were out of work for a period of time.
The governing body is aware that many of you generously provided food
and even money so that their families could get by.
We commend you for your generosity.
In fact, that is exactly what Jehovah wanted you to do.
Due to the economy chapter 15 verse 10,
it says, you should generously give to him
and you should not give to him grudgingly.
For this is why Jehovah, your God,
will bless your every deed and undertaking.
Did you notice that we are to give,
but to do so with the right attitude?
He said not grudgingly,
and when we show such generosity,
Jehovah will indeed bless our every deed and undertaking.
Maybe you have experienced that.
When we give to others, often we find we are blessed with more
than we gave away in the first place.
Proverbs 11-24 makes that very point.
He says, one gives generously and ends up with more.
Jesus Himself said, practice giving and people will give to you.
In addition to providing materially to those in need,
how else can we demonstrate this spirit of giving?
In our May program,
Brethren let explain the goal of the governing body
to accelerate the building of places of worship
and other theocratic facilities.
We would like to take this opportunity
to thank you for your generous response
over the past few months
and for your continued support
of this all-important work.
Thank you very much.
How about this one?
Are we generous when it comes to forgiving those
who have offended us in some way?
Come again.
I ask if we are generous for givers.
The religious leaders in the first century
talk that you only had to forgive a person three times.
That was it.
Jesus taught Peter that that was being stingy,
knowing that three times was the limit.
The religious leaders established Peter no doubt thought.
He was generous when he asked Jesus at Matthew 1821,
how many times is my brother to sin against me
and am I to forgive him?
Up to seven times?
Peter likely thought he was being generous seven times.
That was more than twice the limit
that was established back then.
However, what did Jesus say in response?
You're too stingy, Peter.
In verse 22, Jesus said to him,
I say to you not up to seven times,
but up to 77 times.
Now that was generous.
We don't keep count.
Let's keep on forgiving our imperfect brothers and sisters.
Divine forgiveness is expensive.
It's generous.
Psalm 86.5 says of Jehovah,
for you are good and ready to forgive.
How are we doing in this regard?
Are we ready to forgive when our feelings are heard?
Are we offended?
We can be generous with our time.
Are we quick to volunteer to clean or maintain the kingdom hall?
How about spending time visiting the sick or elderly
in our congregation?
Are helping a new student on the Theocratic ministry school
to prepare his talk?
Time is a precious commodity.
Are we generous in doling it out for such noble purposes?
Speaking of giving of our time,
are we generous when it comes to the ministry?
At Philippians 1.5, Paul called it
the contribution you have made to the good news.
It's true all of us have different circumstances,
but if we look over our publisher record card
for the past six months,
would we consider ourselves to be generous
in the amount of time we devoted to sharing the good news?
Husbands, wives, parents, elders, pioneers, publishers?
Do we generously give commendation to others?
Problems 3.27 says,
do not withhold good from those to whom you should give it?
Do we sometimes withhold the commendation?
Why would we do that?
At times we simply forget to tell someone
what we appreciate about them.
On the other hand, some find it easy to commend those
who they consider are inferior to them,
or those who are superior to them.
But at times we might have trouble commending a peer.
We might think, if I commend him,
he might think he's better than I am.
Or suppose there is a brother who gave a very good talk
in the congregation,
but you were somewhat annoyed by his overuse of the expression.
You know what I mean?
We might feel that if we commend him on his talk,
that we're tacitly approving his overuse of that phrase,
do you know what I mean?
Why not sincerely commend him on something
you specifically appreciated about the talk?
Of course, if you are an elder,
or the Theocratic minister's school overseer,
you might bring the overuse phrase to his attention,
but after sincere commendation.
All of us appreciate commendation.
Three times, Jehovah's voice was heard
from the heavens giving him commendation,
approving his son.
In Revelation chapter two,
Jesus provides commendation to several congregations
in Asia Minor.
Yes, a word spoken at the right time.
How good it is.
At Acts 2035, Jesus has quoted as saying
there is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.
With that simple statement,
Jesus captured the essence of true generosity.
A generous person gives freely of his time,
energy and resources to benefit others.
And generosity is measured not by the size of the gift,
but by the motive of the giver.
Again, the governing body wanted me to take this opportunity
to thank all of you for your continued generous support
of the worldwide work.